[DOCS] Risk score enhancements (#2580)
elastic/security-docs: docs/experimental-features/user-risk-score.asciidoc

* The *User risk* tab on a user's details page

Or, in {kib}, you can enable user risk score in Console. 

To enable user risk score from the Entity Analytics dashboard: 

. In the {security-app}, go to *Dashboards* -> *Entity Analytics*. 
. In the User Risk Scores section, click *Enable* to install the module. 

To enable user risk score from the Users page: 

. Go to *Explore* -> *Users*. 
. Select the *User risk* tab, then click *Enable* to install the module. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/enable-urs.png[Enable User Risk score button]

To enable user risk score from a user's details page: 

. Go to *Explore* -> *Users*. 
. Select the *All users* tab, then click a user name. 
. On the details page, scroll down to the data tables, then select the *User risk* tab. 
. Click *Enable* to install the module. 

To enable user risk score from Console in {kib}, open a browser window and enter the following URL:

[source,console]
----------------------------------
{KibanaURL}/s/{spaceID}/app/dev_tools#/console?load_from={KibanaURL}/s/{spaceID}/internal/risk_score/prebuilt_content/dev_tool/enable_user_risk_score
----------------------------------

> NOTE: If you have existing content in Console, scroll to the bottom, then paste the content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you have existing content in Console, paste the new content at the bottom. 
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/urs-histogram.png[User risk score histogram]

The data tables beneath the histogram display alert counts by users, alert counts by host, and associated MITRE ATT&CK tactics seen for risky users. The table data is sorted in reverse chronological order by default, with the highest total risk score at the top. Use this information to triage users with the highest risk in your network.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/dashboard.gif[User risk score dashboard]

[[verify-user-risk-score]]
=== Verify user risk score data installed successfully (Optional)

After enabling or upgrading user risk score, you may get the following message: 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/restart-urs.png[Restart user risk score]

> If so, click *Restart* and allow at least an hour for the data to be generated. If you still don't see any data, verify that user risk score data has been generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, click *Restart* and allow at least an hour for the data to be generated. If you still don't see any data, verify that user risk score data has been generated:
```
"see"

In {kib}, run the following commands in Console to query the `ml_user_risk_score_<space-id>` index: 

[source,console]
----------------------------------
GET ml_user_risk_score_<space-id>/_search
----------------------------------

If no data returns, you'll need to check if the alerts index (`.alerts-security.alerts-<space-id>`) had alert data when `ml_hostriskscore_pivot_transform_<space-id>` was started.

Example:

[source,console]
----------------------------------

> GET transform/ml_userriskscore_pivot_transform_default/_stats?human=true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GET transform/ml_userriskscore_pivot_transform_<space-id>/_stats?human=true
```

        "search_time_in_ms": 201,
        "search_total": 29,
        "search_failures": 0,
        "processing_time_in_ms": 14,
        "processing_total": 29,
        "delete_time_in_ms": 0,
        "exponential_avg_checkpoint_duration_ms": 59.02353261024906,
        "exponential_avg_documents_indexed": 0.8762710605864747,
        "exponential_avg_documents_processed": 1664.7724779548555
      },
      "checkpointing": {
        "last": {
          "checkpoint": 8,
          "timestamp": "2022-10-17T14:49:50.315Z",
          "timestamp_millis": 1666018190315,
          "time_upper_bound": "2022-10-17T14:47:50.315Z",
          "time_upper_bound_millis": 1666018070315
        },
        "operations_behind": 380,
        "changes_last_detected_at_string": "2022-10-17T14:49:50.113Z",
        "changes_last_detected_at": 1666018190113,
        "last_search_time_string": "2022-10-17T14:49:50.113Z",
        "last_search_time": 1666018190113
      }
    }
  ]
}
----------------------------------

Take note of the value from `time_upper_bound_millis` and enter it as a range query for the alerts index. 

Example: 

[source,console]
----------------------------------

> GET .alerts-security.alerts-default/_search

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GET .alerts-security.alerts-<space-id>/_search
```

{
  "query": {
    "range": {
      "@timestamp": {
        "lt": 1666018070315
      }
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------

> If there's no response, verify that relevant <<rules-ui-management, rules>> are running and that alert data is being generated. If so, allow an hour for the user risk data to appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there's no response, verify that relevant <<rules-ui-management, rules>> are running and that alert data is being generated. If there's response, click the restart button and allow an hour for the user risk data to appear.
```
